TourMyPakistan: Economical 6 Days Skardu Exploration – Tour My Pakistan
TourMyPakistan: Economical 6 Days Skardu Exploration
Skardu Valley , Pakistan
1
TourMyPakistan: Economical 6 Days Skardu Exploration
6 Days
₨
170,000
2
Islamabad
18-50				+
2
/2
Make your booking
Select Date  :
Check  Availability
Overview
Price: PKR
170000
per couple
Are you ready to embark on an unforgettable journey to Skardu without breaking the bank? TourMyPakistan invites you to join our budget-friendly 6-day Skardu tour, designed to help you explore the natural beauty, culture, and history of this captivating region while keeping your wallet happy.
Journey to Skardu
Your adventure begins as you set out on a comfortable journey to Skardu, either by road or air, as per your preference.
Arrival in Skardu
On arrival in Skardu, be prepared to be captivated by the stunning landscapes and our warm welcome.
Check in to your comfortable accommodation, where you’ll spend the night.
Start Your Skardu Exploration
Begin your day with a delicious breakfast amidst the serene surroundings of Skardu.
Set off for a day of exploration, visiting local attractions, cultural sites, and immersing yourself in the beautiful landscapes.
Delve into the rich history of the region as you explore historic sites and savor local cuisine.
Continue Your Discoveries
Your adventure continues with another day of exploration and discovery.
Immerse yourself in the breathtaking natural beauty of Skardu, capturing memories and moments that will last a lifetime.
Free Time or Optional Activities
This day is yours to enjoy at your own pace. You can relax at your hotel, go shopping, or opt for additional activities of your choice.
Farewell to Skardu
Savor your final breakfast in Skardu as you prepare to bid farewell to this enchanting destination.
Return to your point of origin, cherishing the memories and experiences of your 6-day Skardu journey.
Tour Inclusions:
A dedicated driver to guide you through the journey and provide local insights.
A dedicated GLI car with fuel and road taxes fully covered for your convenience.
Five nights of comfortable hotel accommodation.
An exhilarating jeep ride to Deosai National Park, where you can revel in the picturesque landscapes.
Breakfast for the couple to fuel your days of exploration.
Driver’s food and accommodation expenses covered, ensuring a seamless and comfortable journey.
Entry tickets to Khaplu and Shiger Forts, allowing you to explore the rich history of these landmarks.
Book Your Budget-Friendly Skardu Adventure:
Don’t miss this opportunity to explore Skardu affordably and with ease. Contact TourMyPakistan today to reserve your spot on this 6-day tour and embark on a journey that will introduce you to the beauty and culture of Skardu without straining your budget.
Schedule Details
Day 1
<em><span data-preserver-spaces="true"> </span></em><span data-preserver-spaces="true">We will leave your pick-up location earlier from Rawalpindi or Islamabad. We drive to HassanAbdal, after reaching Mansehra Abbottabad as our first stop. After a short visit to Mansehra, we will move to Besham, then to Dassu, and finally, we will arrive at Chilas in the evening. Check-in Hotel </span><span data-preserver-spaces="true">for a night’s stay.</span>
<span data-preserver-spaces="true"> </span>
Day 2
<span data-preserver-spaces="true">After having breakfast at the  hotel</span><span data-preserver-spaces="true"> we will move to Jaglot and then from Jaglot to Gilgit Skardu Road. We will reach the Khachura district 30 kilometers before the central city of Skardu. We will be staying at Lake Kachura (the famous Lake Shangri-La). Depending on the package provided, various hotels are available.</span>
Day 3
So let’s start the 3rd day of the Skardu Trip. We will first visit Upper Kachura Lake, only a 20-minute walk from Lake Shangri-La (Lower Kachura), and spend an hour there. We visit Shigar Valley as Shigar Fort is very famous due to the Royal Family Palace. Cold Desert is one of the major attractions in Shigar Valley, back to Main City.
Day 4
We will have breakfast at the hotel before visiting Deosai National Park. It is the second-highest plateau in the world and is a favorite of many tourists. We will visit Pani, Bada Pani, and Sheoshar Lake, the Deosai National Park activity center. Full-day tour and return to Skardu at night.
Day 5
Breakfast, a departure from Skardu to Chilas, overnight in 8-10 hours. Overnight in Chilas.
Day 6
<span data-preserver-spaces="true">oday is the last day of our trip. We will have breakfast at  Hotel </span><span data-preserver-spaces="true">before heading to Rawalpindi Islamabad via Besham or Naran Valley if Babusar Top is open. </span>
F.A.Q
What clothing should I pack for my Skardu trip?
Depending on the time of your visit, pack both warm and lightweight clothing. In summer, bring comfortable clothes, but also pack warm clothing, as evenings can be chilly. In the colder months, pack heavy winter attire.
Is there any local culture or etiquette I should be aware of?
The people of Skardu are warm and welcoming. It's customary to greet with a smile and show respect for local customs and traditions. Dress modestly, especially when visiting religious sites.
Are there facilities for cash withdrawal and internet access in Skardu?
Skardu has limited ATM facilities, so it's advisable to carry enough cash. Internet access may be available in hotels and cafes, but don't expect high-speed connections.
Get Enquiry
Activities
Why Book With Us?
Premium Hotel Stays
We are offering most affordable and luxury tours with complete plans and guides
Professional Guide
Got a Question?
Feel Free To Contact Us
+92 333 2022029
[email protected]
Get Enquiry
Meet our guide
Asad Ullah
You may like Tour
From
₨
270,000
20			People
4 Days 3 Nights
TourMyPakistan: Skardu Expedition – 4 Days and 3 Nights
Skardu Valley , Pakistan
Embark on a once-in-a-lifetime journey to the pristine landscapes of Skardu with TourMyPakistan. Our exclusive 4-day, 3-night tour offers you the perfect blend of adventure, comfort, and natural beauty. Join us as we explore the stunning region of Skardu, filled with awe-inspiring sights and unforgettable experiences.
Explore
From
₨
145,000
2			People
7 Days 6 Nights
Naran Kaghan Azad Kashmir Tour 7-Days Tour for Couples
Naran Kaghan , Pakistan
Embark on a romantic and adventurous journey through the stunning landscapes of Naran, Kaghan, and Azad Kashmir with your loved one. This 7-day tour offers you the perfect opportunity to create lasting memories together in some of the most beautiful destinations in Pakistan.
Explore
From
₨
180,000
2			People
7 Days 6 Nights
Explore the Gem of Northern Pakistan – 7-Day Hunza Valley Tour for Couples with TourMyPakistan
Hunza Valley , Pakistan
Embark on a magnificent 7-day, 6-night journey to the stunning Hunza Valley, priced at just PKR 180,000 for couples. This adventure promises an unforgettable escape, combining natural beauty, culture, and relaxation.
Explore
✕
Your Question