PTDC - Myanmar Collaboration
Pakistan Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar in collaboration with Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation
July 27, 2022
Pakistan’s Tourism Potential Highlighted in Myanmar
Pakistan Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar in collaboration with Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation (PTDC) organized a one-day seminar on Tourism Potential of Pakistan at Wyndham Grand Yangon Hotel on 27th July 2021 (Wednesday).
A large number of Tour Opera tors, officials from tourism organizations and notable Buddhist Monks from Myanmar participated in the seminar which was organized with a view to highlight the potential of tourism in Pakistan by showcasing its rich cultural and landscape diversity. Col. Imran Khan, Defense Attaché of Pakistan at Yangon welcomed the participants and expressed his gratitude to all the speakers and dignitaries. On this occasion, tourism promotional material including pamphlets and posters produced by PTDC were also distributed among the participants.
Aftab ur Rehman Rana, Managing Director of PTDC was invited as the key note speaker. He gave a detailed presentation on the potential of tourism in Pakistan and also highlighted various steps taken by the government of Pakistan to promote tourism in the country.
After that a presentation was made by Dr. Nadeem Omer Tarar on the rich Gandhara heritage and potential of Buddhist heritage tourism in Pakistan.
Javed Khan, Charge de Affairs of Pakistan Embassy at Yangon spoke about the visa policy of Pakistan. He explained about the process of issuance of Tourist and general Visa. On this occasion different short documentaries on tourism potential of Pakistan were also played on large screen which were highly admired by the audience.
Mr. Maxim Guromoko, a Russian Diplomat who served in Pakistan shared his experiences about Beauty of Pakistan. He mentioned that he was placed at Karachi and number of times he travelled by road to Islamabad. He enjoyed the landscape diversity of Sindh, Punjab and of Islamabad. He enjoyed the food, culture and hospitality enroute. He acknowledged that there is absolutely no problem with respect to security or safety while traveling by road in Pakistan.
Buddhist Monk, Dr. Ashin Soubita also shared his remarks about Gandhara Heritage in Pakistan. He highly appreciated the effort of Pakistan government to promote Buddhist heritage tourism and showed keen interest in visiting Pakistan in near future. Participants of the seminar also very much appreciate the efforts of Pak Embassy at Yangon and PTDC for the arranging this introductory seminar on tourism in Pakistan. Now further efforts will be made to develop the B2B linkages through the follow up activities in near future.
Col. Imran Khan, Defense Attaché of Pakistan in Yangon thanked all the participants for attending this seminar in large number. He said, Pakistan is a peaceful and a safe country as the government of Pakistan will ensure to make all the steps to facilitate the tourists from Myanmar to travel to Pakistan. He also ensured that if any Buddhist religious delegation intend to visit Pakistan they will be given dedicated security.
Punjabi Cuisine
Sindhi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Punjabi Cuisine
Welcome to Pakistan
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature. Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities, which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
Pakistan is endowed with a rich and varied flora and fauna. High Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line, coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub, the vast Indus plain merging into the great desert, the coast line and wetlands, all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna, both endemic and migratory. Ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in Pakistan with species ranging from the world's smallest surviving mammals, the Mediterranean Pigmy Shrew, to the largest mammal ever known; the blue whale.
NTCB
Tourism is a focused area of the present government. Several initiatives are being undertaken to garner the potential offered by the tourism industry. To develop and enhance coordination with provinces, federal ministries, and private actors, facilitate in the development of policies, strategies, framework, etc, to market and promote tourism potentials nationally and internationally; and capacity building for the provision of quality human resource, the Government has constituted the National Tourism Coordination Board (NTCB). NTCB is mandated to:
Coordinate with provincial, national and international organizations dealing with the tourism sector.
Market and Promote tourism potential of Pakistan.
Facilitate the provinces in developing a regulatory framework for quality standards in the Hospitality sector.
Coordinate national participation in tourism related international expos and events.
Develop synergies amongst provinces and regions.
Provide Technical assistance to provinces to develop institutions in tourism sectors.
As a part of the strategy, the NTCB formulated following thematic working groups to develop strategies and action plans in their assigned specific areas:
Cultural, Heritage & Archaeology Tourism Working Group
ECO Tourism Working Group
Tourism Branding & Marketing Working Group
Regulatory & Policy Reforms Working Group
Religious Tourism Working Group
Investment Promotion Working Group
Infrastructure & Facilitation Working Group
Adventure Tourism Working Group
Trans Himalayan Jeep Rally Working Group
Coming Soon
We are working on it, stay tuned.