Welcome to Pakistan
Discover
The Magnificent Himalayas & Karakoram Ranges
Discover
The Fascinating Cultures and Colors of the Land
Discover
The Surreal and Enchanting Glory of Nature
Discover
The Contrast of Spellbinding Grandeur and Sheer Simplicity
Discover
The Most Spirtual and Ancient Places
Pakistan's National Tourism Brand
Salam Pakistan
by
PTDC
, launched by Prime Minister of Pakistan.
Click here to Explore PTDC's Official Tourism Facilitation E-Portal
MR. AFTAB UR REHMAN RANA Managing Director - PTDC
Previous
Next
Welcome to Pakistan
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature. Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
Read More
Latest Updates
Consultative Workshop for Improving Tourism Regulatory Mechanism
July 29, 2024
National Tourism Conference on World Tourism day
September 26-27, 2022
Workshop on Increasing Pollution Issue on the Mountains
September 13, 2022
THE 3RD D-8 MINISTERIAL AND 4TH SENIOR OFFICIALS MEETING ON TOURISM
August 4-5, 2023
Pakistan Travel and Tourism Expo 2024
Salam Pakistan Tourism Brand Launching Event
August 05, 2023
PAKISTAN'S FIRST RIVER RAFTING EXPEDITION
August 16, 2022
Pakistan Participation in ITB Berlin
March 07-09, 2023
GANDHARA SYMPOSIUM
JULY 01-03, 2023
Tourism Fair Seoul Korea
May 4-7, 2023
REJOICING OUR VERSATILE ETHNICITY VESAK DAY CELEBERATION
May 07, 2022
Pakistan’s Tourism Potential Highlighted in Myanmar
Pakistan’s Participation in New York Travel & Adventure Show 2023
World Travel Martket (WTM) - London (06-08 November 2023)
Validation Workshop on Development of National Tourism Competitiveness Index - NTCI - May 23, 2022
NTCB
National Tourism Coordination Board
Tourism is a focused area of the present government. Several initiatives are being undertaken to garner the potential offered by the tourism industry. To develop and enhance coordination with provinces, federal ministries, and private actors, facilitate in the development of policies, strategies, framework, etc, to market and promote tourism potentials nationally and internationally; and capacity building for the provision of quality human resource, the Government has constituted the National Tourism Coordination Board (NTCB). NTCB is mandated to:
Read More
PTDC
Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation
Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation (PTDC) was incorporated on March 30, 1970, under the repealed Companies Act 1913 (now the Companies Ordinance, 1984) as a Public Corporation Limited by shares.
PTDC is owned by the Government of Pakistan (99.75% share). The principal objective of the corporation is to promote and develop tourism in Pakistan.
WHERE TO GO
Islamabad
Islamabad, the capital city of Pakistan is ranked as one of the most beautiful cities in the world.
Punjab
Punjab is Pakistan's second largest province by area, and it is the most populated province, with rich culture & hitory.
Read More >>
Sindh
Sindh is in the southeast of the country, and the historical home of the Sindhi people. Sindh has Pakistan's second largest economy, while its provincial capital, Karachi is Pakistan's largest city and financial hub.
Read More >>
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Located in the northwestern region of the country along the international border with Afghanistan.
Read More >>
Balouchistan
It is the largest province in terms of land area, forming the southwestern region of the country, but is the least populated. Its provincial capital and largest city is Quetta.
Read More >>
Azad Kashmir
Azad Kashmir is an administrative region of Pakistan situated in the northern part of the country. The northern part of Azad Jammu and Kashmir encompasses the lower part of the Himalayas, including Jamgarh Peak (15,531 feet [4,734 meters]).
Read More >>
Gilgit Baltistan
Gilgit-Baltistan is an admisitrative unit of Pakistan situated in the Northern Part of the country. It is one of the best tourist spots in Pakistan. Gilgit-Baltistan is home to five of the "eight-thousanders" and to more than fifty peaks above 7,000 metres (23,000 ft). Gilgit and Skardu are the two main hubs for expeditions to those mountains.
Read More >>
World Travel Martket (WTM) - London (07-09 November 2022)
×
Welcome to Pakistan
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature. Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities, which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
Pakistan is endowed with a rich and varied flora and fauna. High Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line, coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub, the vast Indus plain merging into the great desert, the coast line and wetlands, all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna, both endemic and migratory. Ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in Pakistan with species ranging from the world's smallest surviving mammals, the Mediterranean Pigmy Shrew, to the largest mammal ever known; the blue whale.
NTCB
Tourism is a focused area of the present government. Several initiatives are being undertaken to garner the potential offered by the tourism industry. To develop and enhance coordination with provinces, federal ministries, and private actors, facilitate in the development of policies, strategies, framework, etc, to market and promote tourism potential nationally and internationally; and capacity building for the provision of quality human resources, the Government has constituted the National Tourism Coordination Board (NTCB). NTCB is mandated to:
Coordinate with provincial, national and international organizations dealing with the tourism sector.
Market and promote tourism potential of Pakistan.
Facilitate the provinces in developing a regulatory framework for quality standards in the hospitality sector.
Coordinate national participation in tourism related international expos and events.
Develop synergies amongst provinces and regions.
Provide technical assistance to provinces to develop institutions in tourism sectors.
As a part of the strategy, the NTCB formulated the following thematic working groups to develop strategies and action plans in their assigned specific areas:
Cultural, Heritage & Archaeology Tourism Working Group
ECO Tourism Working Group
Tourism Branding & Marketing Working Group
Regulatory & Policy Reforms Working Group
Religious Tourism Working Group
Investment Promotion Working Group
Infrastructure & Facilitation Working Group
Adventure Tourism Working Group
Trans Himalayan Jeep Rally Working Group
Coming Soon
We are working on it, stay tuned.