PTDC - Pak China Bilateral Tourism Promotion
Tourism Fair Seoul Korea
May 4-7, 2023
Welcome to Pakistan
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature. Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities, which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
Pakistan is endowed with a rich and varied flora and fauna. High Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line, coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub, the vast Indus plain merging into the great desert, the coast line and wetlands, all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna, both endemic and migratory. Ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in Pakistan with species ranging from the world's smallest surviving mammals, the Mediterranean Pigmy Shrew, to the largest mammal ever known; the blue whale.
NTCB
Tourism is a focused area of the present government. Several initiatives are being undertaken to garner the potential offered by the tourism industry. To develop and enhance coordination with provinces, federal ministries, and private actors, facilitate in the development of policies, strategies, framework, etc, to market and promote tourism potentials nationally and internationally; and capacity building for the provision of quality human resource, the Government has constituted the National Tourism Coordination Board (NTCB). NTCB is mandated to:
Coordinate with provincial, national and international organizations dealing with the tourism sector.
Market and Promote tourism potential of Pakistan.
Facilitate the provinces in developing a regulatory framework for quality standards in the Hospitality sector.
Coordinate national participation in tourism related international expos and events.
Develop synergies amongst provinces and regions.
Provide Technical assistance to provinces to develop institutions in tourism sectors.
As a part of the strategy, the NTCB formulated following thematic working groups to develop strategies and action plans in their assigned specific areas:
Cultural, Heritage & Archaeology Tourism Working Group
ECO Tourism Working Group
Tourism Branding & Marketing Working Group
Regulatory & Policy Reforms Working Group
Religious Tourism Working Group
Investment Promotion Working Group
Infrastructure & Facilitation Working Group
Adventure Tourism Working Group
Trans Himalayan Jeep Rally Working Group
Coming Soon
We are working on it, stay tuned.