Validation Workshop on Development of National Tourism Competitiveness Index -  NTCI
Validation Workshop on Development of National Tourism Competitiveness Index -  NTCI
May 23, 2022
PTDC and World Bank jointly organized workshop on National Tourism Competitive Index for Pakistan
Pakistan Tourism Development Corporation (PTDC) and The World Bank (WB) jointly organized a workshop in Islamabad on National Tourism Competitiveness Index (NTCI) for Pakistan. The workshop was attended by relevant federal and provincial stakeholders, private sector, industry experts and the academia.
Tourism remains a priority sector for the government and is identified as one of the key drivers of economic growth. It is estimated that investments in travel and tourism sector can generate over half a million new (direct and induced) jobs over the next five years across the country.
Pakistan currently ranks 121st out of 140 economies in the 2019 ‘International Tourism Competitiveness Index’ (ITCI) of the World Economic Forum (WEF). Going forward, the country aspires to improve its ranking considering the strides that Pakistan's tourism industry has taken in recent years to improve tourism infrastructure and connectivity, tourist safety and overall hospitality industry standards. There has been renewed interest by the international investors in Pakistan’s Tourism and Hospitality sector due to the uptick in domestic tourism accompanied by improvements in regulatory and policy framework.  In order for the country to develop and manage destinations, preserve its heritage and promote responsible tourism, the center and provinces need to partner with academia and private sector. Meanwhile, establishment of National Tourism Competitive Index (NTCI) and an action plan for achieving the NTCI indicators could contribute positively towards improvement in Pakistan’s ranking on the ITCI.
The work on NTCI’s development has so far involved consultations with the relevant public and private sector entities and the workshop presented the proposed NTCI framework to the participants. The participants also discussed the roles and responsibilities of various stakeholders to ensure the implementation of NTCI and associated action plan.
Speaking on the occasion, Managing Director PTDC, Mr. Aftab Ur Rehman Rana reaffirmed government’s commitment towards enhancement of sustainable tourism development and said, ‘PTDC’s collaboration with the WB on developing NTCI will allow the government to collect, monitor and report valuable data, which will strengthen the tourism sector’s ability to show evidence backed progress while enabling the authorities to make informed policy decisions”.
Talking about the activity, Ms. Kiran Afzal, Senior Private Sector Specialist of the WB said, “World Bank’s partnership with the government on this crucial activity will help realise our collective vision of making Pakistan a destination of choice for tourists from around the world while offering diverse tourism experiences to the domestic travelers”. Mr. Gabi Afram, Practice Manager of the WB’s Finance and Competitiveness Global Practice also conveyed that the institution will continue its support to strengthen tourism sector planning, product offering and resilience of the value chains through its ongoing investment project financing in Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Later on the team of consultants presented their findings on the development of NTCI for Pakistan and get feedback from the participants of workshop on various aspects of its framework and action plan.
The workshop ended with a note of thanks from the Managing Director, PTDC.
Punjabi Cuisine
Pushton Cuisine
Sindhi Cuisine
Balochi Cuisine
Balochi Cuisine
Balochi Cuisine
Welcome to Pakistan
From the mighty stretches of the Karakorams in the North to the vast alluvial delta of the Indus River in the South, Pakistan remains a land of high adventure and nature. Trekking, mountaineering, white water rafting, wild boar hunting, mountain and desert jeep safaris, camel and yak safaris, trout fishing and bird watching, are a few activities, which entice the adventure and nature lovers to Pakistan.
Pakistan is endowed with a rich and varied flora and fauna. High Himalayas, Karakoram and the Hindukush ranges with their alpine meadows and permanent snow line, coniferous forests down the sub-mountain scrub, the vast Indus plain merging into the great desert, the coast line and wetlands, all offer a remarkably rich variety of vegetation and associated wildlife including avifauna, both endemic and migratory. Ten of 18 mammalian orders are represented in Pakistan with species ranging from the world's smallest surviving mammals, the Mediterranean Pigmy Shrew, to the largest mammal ever known; the blue whale.
NTCB
Tourism is a focused area of the present government. Several initiatives are being undertaken to garner the potential offered by the tourism industry. To develop and enhance coordination with provinces, federal ministries, and private actors, facilitate in the development of policies, strategies, framework, etc, to market and promote tourism potentials nationally and internationally; and capacity building for the provision of quality human resource, the Government has constituted the National Tourism Coordination Board (NTCB). NTCB is mandated to:
Coordinate with provincial, national and international organizations dealing with the tourism sector.
Market and Promote tourism potential of Pakistan.
Facilitate the provinces in developing a regulatory framework for quality standards in the Hospitality sector.
Coordinate national participation in tourism related international expos and events.
Develop synergies amongst provinces and regions.
Provide Technical assistance to provinces to develop institutions in tourism sectors.
As a part of the strategy, the NTCB formulated following thematic working groups to develop strategies and action plans in their assigned specific areas:
Cultural, Heritage & Archaeology Tourism Working Group
ECO Tourism Working Group
Tourism Branding & Marketing Working Group
Regulatory & Policy Reforms Working Group
Religious Tourism Working Group
Investment Promotion Working Group
Infrastructure & Facilitation Working Group
Adventure Tourism Working Group
Trans Himalayan Jeep Rally Working Group
Coming Soon
We are working on it, stay tuned.