Welcome - Open Data Pakistan
Skip to content
A woman with a camera
She is probably taking a picture
Down came the rain
And washed the spider out
Down came the rain
And washed the spider out
Down came the rain
And washed the spider out
Lorum Impsum
She is probably taking a picture
Previous
Next
Agriculture, Food & Forests
Cities & Regions
Connectivity
Culture
Demography
Economy & Finance
Education
Environment & Energy
Government & Public Sector
Health
Housing & Public Services
Manufacturing
Public Safety
Science & Technology
Featured Datasets
Recent Additions
Most recent datasets added
UK Global Visa Issuance
he dashboard displays data from the UK Immigration System Statistics – Entry Clearance Visas for March 2024, sourced from the UK Home Office. The data has been compiled,...
XLSX
US Immigrants And Non-Immigrants
This dashboard presents official monthly visa issuance data sourced from the U.S. Department of State, covering both immigrant and non-immigrant visas. It offers categorized...
XLSX
PAMA
This dataset contains monthly and annual data on vehicle production and sales in Pakistan, sourced from the Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA). Covering the...
XLSX
Import And Export Pakistan
This dataset provides detailed information on Pakistan’s international trade, sourced from the official website of the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS). It includes monthly...
XLSX
Popular Datasets
Most viewed datasets
Pakistani Cities, Towns and Villages with Distr...
Pakistani Cities, Towns and Villages with Districts
CSV
Rainfall in Pakistan
Pakistan faces floods and drought more often than anyone can believe in different parts of the country year after year, and the cycle seems to continue infinitely. This dataset...
CSV
Pakistan Largest Ecommerce Dataset
This is the largest retail e-commerce orders dataset from Pakistan. It contains half a million transaction records from March 2016 to August 2018.
CSV
Import And Export Pakistan
This dataset provides detailed information on Pakistan’s international trade, sourced from the official website of the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS). It includes monthly...
XLSX
1.1k
Datasets
22
Organizations
14
Categories
13
Showcases
Open Data Pakistan
Open Data Pakistan is brought to you by the National Center for Big Data and Cloud Computing (NCBC), Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Higher Education Commission (HEC). It is a collaborative effort to help provide open data to all kinds of users.