Showcases - Open Data Pakistan
Skip to content
Home
Showcases
Mukhbir: Real-Time Anonymous Crime Reporting
Law and order is a crucial characteristic of progressive, civilized societies. It is a fundamental responsibility of the government to provide a safe and orderly environment...
1 Dataset
View Mukhbir: Real-Time Anonymous Crime Reporting
Brain Drain Sankey
This sankey chart shows the intensity of people who emigrated from Pakistan to the following countries from 1970 to 2019.
Over the last two to three decades, the number of...
1 Dataset
View Brain Drain Sankey
Pakistan Market Prices 2017-2019
Prices (June 2017 – July 2019) extracted from the Sensitive Price Index (SPI) computed to assess the price movement of 53 essential commodities in 73 markets of 17 cities of...
1 Dataset
View Pakistan Market Prices 2017-2019
PSL's Top 25 Batsmen and Bowlers
Pakistan Super League (PSL) is one of the biggest cricket leagues on Earth. They invite international players from around the world to come and compete in the local league. Open...
1 Dataset
View PSL's Top 25 Batsmen and Bowlers
Punjab Hospital Beds Availability Guide
I have designed a user-friendly dashboard addressing the recent health care challenges raised by COVID-19. Punjab is currently the most affected province in Pakistan, with an...
1 Dataset
View Punjab Hospital Beds Availability Guide
Gender Inequality in Pakistan
According to the Global Gender Gap Index, Pakistan ranks the second-lowest in the world for gender equality. The UN Sustainable Development Goal for Gender Equality by 2030...
2 Datasets
View Gender Inequality in Pakistan
Climate Action
Climate change is likely to hurt developing nations the hardest. It impacts temperatures, rainfalls, sea levels and, more often, climate-related disasters. At an alarming stake...
2 Datasets
View Climate Action
Suicide Bombings in Pakistan
In order to devise strategies to prevent and mitigate suicide bombings, it is imperative to understand the impact of previous bombings. After careful analysis, we can identify...
1 Dataset
View Suicide Bombings in Pakistan
Investigating Climate Change
February 2021 was recorded as one of the hottest and driest months in the last 60 years of Pakistan. Most of the country experienced no rain except Gilgit, where glacier and...
3 Datasets
View Investigating Climate Change
Visualizing Air Quality Index
This dashboard represents the air quality index of four major cities of Pakistan over a year. The data contains a measure of PM 2.5 which is a major indicator for the air...
1 Dataset
View Visualizing Air Quality Index
PRECON Pakistan Residential Electricity Consumption Dataset
This vizualization shows a distribution of house applications in a representative sample of 42 houses from the PRECON metadata. The median number of ACs across Lahore in the...
1 Dataset
View PRECON Pakistan Residential Electricity Consumption Dataset
Impact of COVID-19 on Trade in Pakistan
Economies worldwide have been greatly affected by the COVID-19 outbreak. A study demonstrated that trade shrunk by 3.5% globally. The above-presented dashboard aims to explore...
1 Dataset
View Impact of COVID-19 on Trade in Pakistan
Pakistan Suicide Bombings Vs Drone Attacks
This showcase has no description
1 Dataset
View Pakistan Suicide Bombings Vs Drone Attacks